# baltimore-city-vs-county-income-and-grad-rates

Although they share a name and are often conflated by out-of-towners, Baltimore City and Baltimore County are very distinct regions of Maryland. These differences are much more apparent when comparing the household income and graduation rates of adults who grew up in the county as opposed to the city. I'm personally interested in this comparison because, growing up in Baltimore County, I was very aware, like all Baltimore residents, of the inter-regional differences between the two areas (often a point of contention and source of tension between them). I was curious to see how these differences played out in the Opportunity Atlas and wanted to visualize some of the socioeconomic differences between county and city. However, this is by no means an extensive survey of said differences, merely a jumping off point for looking at how parent income percentiles and hometown (or in this case, county) impact select variables.

The original datasets used were Average annual household income, High school graduation rate, and College graduation rate of adults in their mid-30s in 2014-15 who grew up in either the county or city. For each variable, I looked at the dataset for each of the following parent income percentiles, 25th percentile, 50th, 75th, and all percentiles, resulting in twelve total datasets. Using VLOOKUP, I compiled all of the datasets into the spreadsheet "Baltimore City vs County" and then used IF statements and PIVOT tables to create graphs visualizing the impact of parent income percentiles and hometown on the chosen variables: household income, high school graduation rate, and college graduation rate.

Basic findings showed that, as expected, growing up in Baltimore County, as opposed to the city, gave children better chances of graduating from high school and college, and earning a higher household income as adults. A similar trend emerged as parent income percentile increased. The most surprising results were in high school graduation rates, which showed the least sensitivity to hometown and parent income percentile, and college graduation rates, which showed the most sensitivity to hometown and parent income percentile.
